Add Abaqus and SAS Examples with Slurm Scripts; Update 2_ApplicationSpecific README (#16)
ubccr/ccr-examples: containers/2_ApplicationSpecific/abaqus/README.md

# Running Abaqus with Apptainer

> Abaqus 2024 is available via an Apptainer/Singularity container. You can find the Abaqus container here: `/util/software/containers/x86_64/abaqus-2024.sif`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Abaqus 2024 is available via an Apptainer/Singularity container. The Abaqus container file can be found in this directory: `/util/software/containers/x86_64/abaqus-2024.sif` which is accessible when logged into CCR's HPC environment.
```

This is a large file (10GB) so please be sure to copy it to a location where you have enough space (i.e. your project directory), or you can run the container from this location.

**Note**: Apptainer/Singularity is only available on compute and compile nodes. Please refer to our [container documentation](https://docs.ccr.buffalo.edu/en/latest/howto/containerization/) for more information on using containers.

## Abaqus Command Line/Batch Script

> To run Abaqus from the command line, run this command: `$ apptainer exec -B /util:/util,/scratch:/scratch /util/software/containers/x86_64/abaqus-2024.sif /bin/bash`

Reviewer: Let's use code blocks instead of code lines for this section and drop single commands onto their own lines throughout.  When we say "use this command" let's take out the $ or users will copy that thinking it's part of the command.  Replace this section with the following:

There are several options to run Abaqus from the command line.  If you're unsure of the options to provide or want to run the application more interactively, use the `shell` option with Apptainer.  This will drop you into the container and then you can work with Abaqus interactively.  For example:
```
apptainer shell -B /util:/util,/scratch:/scratch /[path-to-container]/abaqus-2024.sif /bin/bash
 Apptainer>abaqus help
```

If you know what options you need to run Abaqus, use the `exec` option with Apptainer and specify them all in the apptainer command.  For example:
```
apptainer exec -B /util:/util,/scratch:/scratch /[path-to-container]/abaqus-2024.sif abaqus [options]
```

See the [Abaqus documentation](https://docs.software.vt.edu/abaqusv2024/English/?show=SIMACAEEXCRefMap/simaexc-c-analysisproc.htm) for the full list of command line options

> **Tip**: The `-B` option is telling Apptainer/Singularity which directories on the node you want to bind mount into the container. You will automatically get access to your home directory. The directories we have listed here to bind mount are required. If you also want access to your project directory you can add `,/projects:/projects` to the list or your specific directory `,/projects/academic/[YourGroupName]:/projects/academic/[YourGroupName]` for example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Tip**: The `-B` option is telling Apptainer/Singularity which directories on the node you want to bind mount into the container. You will automatically get access to your home directory. The directories we have listed here to bind mount are required. If you also want access to your project directory you can add `,/projects:/projects` to the list or your specific directory `,/projects/academic/[YourGroupName]:/projects/academic/[YourGroupName]` for example.  This would update the previous example command to this:
```

```
apptainer exec -B /util:/util,/scratch:/scratch,/projects/academic/[YourGroupName]:/projects/academic/[YourGroupName] /[path-to-container]/abaqus-2024.sif abaqus [options]
```

> A Slurm script [`abaqus-test.sh`](./abaqus-test.sh) is provided with all necessary configuration for running Abaqus in a batch script. Update the file paths and resource requests according to your needs. Once the container starts you'll see the Apptainer command prompt and then you can run the Abaqus command as normal. For example: `Apptainer> abaqus help`

Reviewer: The batch script needs to run unattended so the full list of command options need to be specified by the user.
```suggestion
A Slurm script [`abaqus-test.sh`](./abaqus-test.sh) is provided with all necessary configuration for running Abaqus as a batch job. Update the file paths and resource requests according to your needs and add the Abaqus options you need to use at the end of the Apptainer command line.
```

## Abaqus GUI

> To run the Abaqus GUI using this container, first start an [OnDemand desktop](https://docs.ccr.buffalo.edu/en/latest/portals/ood/#interactive-apps) session. Once started, launch a terminal in the OnDemand desktop. Then run this command to start the container and launch the Abaqus GUI: `$ apptainer exec -B /util:/util,/scratch:/scratch /util/software/containers/x86_64/abaqus-2024.sif abaqus cae -mesa`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run the Abaqus GUI using this container, first start an [OnDemand desktop](https://docs.ccr.buffalo.edu/en/latest/portals/ood/#interactive-apps) session. Once started, launch a terminal in the OnDemand desktop. Then run this command to start the container and launch the Abaqus GUI:
`apptainer exec -B /util:/util,/scratch:/scratch /[path-to-container]/abaqus-2024.sif abaqus cae -mesa`
```

## Abaqus and GPUs

> If you need to use GPUs with Abaqus you'll need to request a GPU node and add a few things to the Apptainer/Singularity command that starts the container. Add this after the rest of your bind mounts in the Apptainer/Singularity exec command: `,/opt/software/nvidia:/opt/software/nvidia --nv`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to use GPUs with Abaqus you'll need to request a [GPU node](https://docs.ccr.buffalo.edu/en/latest/hpc/jobs/#slurm-directives-partitions-qos) and add a few things to the Apptainer/Singularity command that starts the container. Add this after the rest of your bind mounts in the Apptainer/Singularity command: `,/opt/software/nvidia:/opt/software/nvidia --nv`
```

> To run the Abaqus GUI on a GPU node, the command would be: `$ apptainer exec -B /util:/util,/scratch:/scratch,/opt/software/nvidia:/opt/software/nvidia --nv /util/software/containers/x86_64/abaqus-2024.sif abaqus cae -mesa`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to run the Abaqus GUI on a GPU node, the command would be:
`apptainer exec -B /util:/util,/scratch:/scratch,/opt/software/nvidia:/opt/software/nvidia --nv /[path-to-container]/abaqus-2024.sif abaqus cae -mesa`
```

**NOTE**: If you're using the Abaqus GUI, we recommend running on the viz partition and qos of the UB-HPC cluster. However, this will work from any GPU node.

> Please refer to the [Abaqus (Simulia) documentation](https://help.3ds.com/2020/English/DSSIMULIA_Established/SIMULIA_Established_FrontmatterMap/sim-t-SIMULIA_EstablishedDocSearchOnline.html) for additional information and support on using this software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please refer to the [Abaqus (Simulia) documentation](https://docs.software.vt.edu/abaqusv2024/English/?show=SIMULIA_Established_FrontmatterMap/sim-r-DSDocAbaqus.htm) for additional information and support on using this software.
```

# Running Abaqus with Apptainer

Abaqus 2024 is available via an Apptainer/Singularity container. The Abaqus container file can be found in this directory: `/util/software/containers/x86_64/abaqus-2024.sif` which is accessible when logged into CCR's HPC environment.
This is a large file (10GB) so please be sure to copy it to a location where you have enough space (i.e. your project directory), or you can run the container from this location.

**Note**: Apptainer/Singularity is only available on compute and compile nodes. Please refer to our [container documentation](https://docs.ccr.buffalo.edu/en/latest/howto/containerization/) for more information on using containers.

## Abaqus Command Line/Batch Script

There are several options to run Abaqus from the command line. If you're unsure of the options to provide or want to run the application more interactively, use the `shell` option with Apptainer. This will drop you into the container and then you can work with Abaqus interactively. For example:
```

> apptainer shell -B /util:/util,/scratch:/scratch /[path-to-container]/abaqus-2024.sif /bin/bash

Reviewer: My bad - I forgot apptainer doesn't need the path to the shell when using the shell option
```suggestion
apptainer shell -B /util:/util,/scratch:/scratch /[path-to-container]/abaqus-2024.sif
```
